---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "A Reflection on Typescript"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-01-23
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Computer Science
---

A Familiar Starting Point
Coming from a background where I have experience in Java, C, and C++, TypeScript feels very similar. The overall structure and approach to learning the language feel very much the same. There are a lot of the same concepts: things like classes, interfaces, and basic syntax. Although I’m grateful a lot of my prior knowledge was easily transferable, I don’t feel that I’ve learned anything drastically new with TypeScript, at least in terms of fundamental programming concepts. That being said, the transition feels smooth, and I’m able to pick things up quickly. TypeScript doesn’t feel like a whole new language.


TypeScript’s Strength
Where TypeScript really stands out for me is in how it forces clear, readable code. This is especially useful when working with other people and their code, streamlining the process of understanding and communication. Learning to effectively contribute to projects in team settings is one of my main goals this semester and TypeScript’s potential shines through its ability to clearly define everything.

My Take on Athletic Software Engineering
The learning style of my current software engineering class seems to have its pros and cons for me. Being able to practice at home with the “Workout of the Day” (WOD) has been an effective source of practice. However, the in-class WODs have been very stressful. I feel a lot more stressed with the presence of so many other people in the same timed environment. I feel the time limit pressures me to focus on completion of the assignment, rather than taking the time to understand what I’m building. 

I’ve realized that the self-study method is not the best fit for me. I’d prefer to use the time in class to learn about the material through hands-on practice, without the clock ticking. As far as homework, I really enjoyed going through the Javascript basics on FreeCodeCamp. I liked the linear process of each lesson being very short, but incrementally building upon the last lesson. Being able to practice at my own pace with immediate feedback encourages and reinforces material the best for me.
